we live in an era when the culture of
reading now more than ever is based on
guilt if you're reading a great book an
important book the work of philosophy a
work of history or something and you
find it boring culturally were
conditioned to refuse to acknowledge and
suppress that sense of boredom if if you
find this book boring what does that say
about you doesn't that mean that you are
the sort of person who can't appreciate
Aristotle who can't appreciate why this
great book is so great so you ought to
feel ashamed of yourself
and the motivation for reading books on
paper in the first place may indeed be
no more and no less than guilt of a
similar sort that you would feel guilty
you would feel ashamed of yourself if
you haven't read Shakespeare and then
for that reason maybe you didn't really
question what your motivations were for
reading Shakespeare what it was you
hoped to get out of it and then what it
is you're disappointed with if you feel
boredom so the the most fundamental
suggestion I have in this video is to
take your own boredom seriously to
examine your own boredom to analyze your
own boredom if you'll want you could say
even have sympathy for yourself to have
sympathy for the reader whether it's you
or someone else for why it is they find
this boring and then to use that sense
of boredom as a guide to find out what
the problem is in many cases the problem
will be that you weren't honest with
yourself about what your motivations
were for reading the book in the first
place but in some cases the problem will
be that you don't have enough historical
knowledge enough knowledge of the
surrounding cultural context to make
reading that book interesting so let's
say one example would be the Christian
Bible what is interesting about the
Christian Bible now let's just say
hypothetically for you watching this
video for the particular person watching
this video let's say what
you're really interested in is the
history of slavery and the excuses that
have been made for slavery by Europeans
within the last 500 years or even last
1,000 years let's say okay so that's
interesting for you so then for you
maybe it's really rewarding to read the
Bible and to do kind of comparison of
select passages with some other book or
some other source you have that explains
how these passages were kind of
cynically interpreted or deployed in
history how you know some of the popes
of the Catholic Church were pro-slavery
and some of the more anti-slavery
it's not the case that we're making an
objective judgment that the Bible is
worth reading
or that it's interesting or that it's
rewarding or that it's important in
isolation
this isn't intrinsic to the Bible this
is something extrinsic to the Bible in
most of these cases your reasons for
reading an important book of philosophy
history or nonfiction of any kind will
be in this sense extrinsic but you may
not be clearly aware of of why it is of
what it is that you're looking for and
maybe what it is you're disappointed
with if you don't find it there so this
person let's say a person the audience
who decides to read the Bible because of
an interest in slavery if they just sit
down and begin reading the Bible from
beginning to end they will be bored
right that boredom and that boredom is
something you should take seriously now
again and the point isn't that they
shouldn't read the Bible at all but if
that's their research interest if that's
their motivation then in a sense they're
reading the Bible the wrong way by
trying to read it from beginning to end
they're gonna be reading an enormous
amount of wildly irrelevant mythological
crap just incoherent discussions of
topics that don't understand anyway they
probably need to sit down with a list of
specific passages and some secondary
source and probably some more kind of
analytical and critical works but the
history of slavery in Judaism and
Christianity and and Western Europe and
how those things relate to the Bible so
that that reading will be rewarding for
them so this will be this will be
meaningful research now a few months ago
it's not that many months ago my
girlfriend Melissa
decided that she would finally read the
Bible and I think her assumption was
she'd start reading it beginning dan you
know because she was someone who was
raised with the kind of very cynical and
dishonest Christian education frankly
like most American Protestants where she
really had no familiarity with the Bible
as a whole
she didn't know what the text was about
even kind of section by section if you
break down the Old Testament into its
major portions you know she had no sense
of what biblical literature was where it
fit into world history culture and so on
what it said um oh it didn't say she had
only been given you know these select
reading passages presented carefully by
a pastor I guess by a church leader you
know it's kind of this intentional
misrepresentation of and cherry-picking
in the Bible so in contrast to that
cherry-picking she was interested in
reading sectional so look these two
examples are counterpose right because
the first person who's reading about
slavery what I'm recommending positively
is a sort of cherry-picking is just
selecting the parts that interest them
and in Melissa's case it's sort of the
opposite like oh well she had an
interest in counteracting sort of
propaganda intentionally flattery of
misleading introduction to the Bible she
had by really reading the text as a
whole now it is needless to say that she
immediately got very discouraged very de
motivated Melissa found reading the
Bible
boring and I put in a lot of work I was
talking to her about the history of the
text where it comes from why the Bible
is the way it is starting with the Old
Testament here a lot of stuff I picked
up over the years either by the way from
a completely atheist perspective but I
mean I was explained to a why this is
important historical evidence shall we
say you know I'm not I'm not I'm in no
way religiously Christian or Jewish but
still I can recognize what's what's
important about this almost in an
archaeological sense for you know
digging up the development of
civilization in that part of the world
and of course it had knock-on effects
for the whole world because Christianity
went on to conquer so much the world as
did Islam so and so forth but what you
have to examine that is why do I find
this boring what motivated me to read
this in the first place quite likely you
were motivated by a misconception about
a false set of assumptions about that
text and what you'd find there what will
be meaningful about it right and then I
think you have to examine is there
something else you need to know that
could make this research meaningful and
relevant to you or maybe not at all
maybe you just drop it maybe you just
give up on reading the Bible and I'll be
honest you I don't know if Melissa could
focus and sharpen damn sharpen her her
reasons like become more precise and
incisive
what was it she wanted to know out of
the Bible it obviously wasn't what she
found in reading kind of the book of
Genesis and it wasn't what I was telling
her I was saying well look here's what's
interesting about this what's it was
interesting about this for example is
that the Old Testament is full of
evidence of the pre monotheistic
religion you know back when this was a
polytheist it's full of evidence of how
Judaism as we know it today emerged from
a totally different religion normally
referred to as first temple Judaism that
the incoherence and repetition of the
Old Testament is itself evidence of how
that text was revised and redacted and
even kind of censored by these later
generations that wanted to make this
into a monotheistic religion whereas it
really was not a monotheistic religion
in the in the more ancient period that
you have this you know the contestation
of what the future of Judaism should be
is preserved forever in the past of what
Judaism was in the very incoherent the
Old Testament so that's a little bit
interesting if that's what you want to
know but obviously that was not with you
that was not what she was expecting to
see at all when she opened the Bible I
think she needs to re-examine what she
was she was expecting or what it was she
wants to know what does she still wants
to know now right so he had a question
from the audience
Araya on
discord was asking when reading
philosophy should she as soon as a she
should she read the primary source kind
of first and foremost in isolation or is
it better to study the intellectual
context that the book is at response to
her wording is it better you know to
understand she gives the example is it
better to understand the French
Revolution or is it better to read Karl
Marx in isolation because I've talked a
lot about how important the history of
the French Revolution is for
understanding what Karl Marx was doing
in the Communist Manifesto in us in his
philosophy economics and politics in
general right now this will sound like a
cop-out answer but I'm really being
sincere when I say this right the answer
has a lot to do with you with what
motivates you with what interests you
not with what makes Marx important kind
of in isolation if you just Rea if I the
writings of Karl Marx and say this is
important again this is why we have to
get away from the aesthetic of guilt
like oh don't you feel guilty about
yourself because you never read Karl
Marx and it's this important book and
you you ought to be the sort of person
who reads it oh it's not a judgment on
the kind of person you are in this sense
well you need to examine is what are
your expectations what is it your you're
trying to find you assume you're gonna
find in this book and then are you you
know then once you start reading it
quite likely you're going to be bored
because you're not the book is neither
asking the questions you wanted it to
ask nor is it answering the questions
you want it to answer so from my
perspective I know nothing about this
person I know nothing about
Araya it is very likely that you will
find the history of the French
Revolution more rewarding and more
interesting than reading Karl Marx in
isolation it's likely right and then
learning the history of the French
Revolution provides the context within
which reading Marx is rewarding and
interesting as a response to that
history of the French Revolution okay to
me that makes sense
but maybe your reasons for reading
marks are completely different so for
example maybe what interests you in karl
marx is let's say you're someone who
studied economics and university like
you did intro to economics in high
school and then history of
macroeconomics and microeconomics
university you're not the world's
greatest expert or someone who is a
fundamental education in economics maybe
your interest is in reading karl marx as
a response to in a critique of classical
economics so it's different context for
understanding Marx or appreciating Marx
so then it wouldn't be the French
Revolution that would make it
interesting for you right it would be
reading and maybe directly comparing you
know the claims that Karl Marx makes
about economics to classical economists
who wrote before him and you could
include maybe some of the critics of
Karl Marx who were in his lifetime or
immediately after him you'd see how he
fits into that continuity the
development of economic theory you know
even something as simple as the theory
of prices and this kind of thing you
know how scarcity relates to prices how
the value of labour relates to prices in
this kind it's not an interesting it's
not interesting to me but it might be
what motivates you but I think many
people would be open in Karl Marx and
not not even thinking through what is it
there what is it that's supposed to make
this interesting for them so then
they're baffled and discouraged by their
own boredom but if you can really
examine that boredom understand that
boredom then you make meaningful
progress one way or another and that
progress may indeed involve or require
that you work outside of the text you're
studying to look at historical context
cultural context or a competing
philosophical context where like you
need to understand this philosophy was
written as a direct response to and
criticism of some other philosophy with
some other political tendency of what
have you so Karl Marx is also an example
that's embedded in my own romantic
relationship with Melissa right I
started making videos about Karl Marx
and the Communist Manifesto because
Melissa decided she was going to read
the communist manifesto again possibly
with some of these some of these ideas
in Melissa's case she really noticed
that here on YouTube a lot of people in
virgin
raishin have now gone all the way over
to being communists or they've embraced
forms of socialism that are so far to
the left and Marxist this has become
popular again in 2020 after a long
period of disaffection with Marxism
socialism and communism she sees this
wave rising and she's interested in
examining Marx as the kind of source
text or locus clsica so that all of
these assumptions are put onto Marx as
being this great work that inspires and
informs this political movement that's
happening again now around her and of
course she feels alienated from that
melissa is not a Marxist melissa is not
a communist Muslim socialist on the
contrary the research and reading
melissa has been doing in the last three
years she has really seen what a
disaster communism was in every way
including of course China that in China
it was this unbelievable disaster so
she's sitting there saying like she
she's really conversant with the ways in
which in which Marxist economic theory
doesn't work the ways in which socialism
and communism don't work
she said thinking well a lot of people
in her generation including like white
people from Detroit Michigan you know
but people from the United States of
America they're getting really excited
Marx so what are those people getting
excited about you may not find the
answer to that question by just sitting
down and reading this book beginning to
end she started reading Marx and she got
bored
she stopped reading it and so that
series of YouTube videos that was making
talking about I was talking in quite
some depth in detail about Karl Marx's
Connor's manifesto des capital and so on
that stop for me also
right but what you have to do is examine
that boredom and then understanding
analytically the real basis of your own
boredom is gonna guide you for how to
move forward with your own reading and
your own research one of the one of the
responses from the audience in my
discord where this discussion took place
someone whose wrote back immediately to
Araya dizzy careful how I pronounce his
or her name said personally I think it
would be better to do both at the same
time to both read the primary source
text and study the historical context
because properly understand the context
of workin to
weeks months years etcetera um there is
a ghost haunting this this issue and
that is the question of whether or not
you can get good secondary sources at
all another person in discussion pointed
out that for example when I talk about
ancient Greece or when I talk about
Buddhism I'm always emphasizing primary
source primary source primary source
either you're reading the primary source
or nothing and that's that's true I mean
that observation of me is true and that
is because the secondary sources are so
often propaganda what do I mean by
propaganda I mean they are intentionally
misleading I have a lot of conflicts
with my friend Muhammad about this I
feel he is not cynical enough about
reading secondary sources about history
and politics I think he very lightly
takes on kind of flattering things that
are being said about history and it's
like no no dude you're not you're not
really open-minded the possibility that
this kind of flattery of what happened
historically is covering over failure
and disaster like the extent to which
you can be encountering propaganda
including by the way propaganda through
omission just not mentioning things that
were really approach on ports to
understanding how horrible something was
or how or why something failed what
really happened so it's it's very easy
to assume that the person in the
audience has access to a secondary
source that's going to tell them about
the French Revolution and you know look
the first revolution it's one of the
most contentious the most laden with
propaganda one of the most romanticized
events in the history of the world
including of course the propaganda of
romanticization created by Karl Marx
himself and all of the Marxist following
after it there is a fascinating book
I've only read the first few chapters of
I'd like to read the whole book written
by Napoleon's younger brother and it's
completely dishonest it's a first-person
perspective on that history including
the French Revolution and Napoleon's
rise to power and I've seen this fall
from power later on the book um you know
but it's written like by someone who's
in
can emotionally shatter the state at the
end of that history someone who lived
through it and he's writing with
absolutely no honesty you know and of
course in terms of omission it omits you
know massacres already in the first
couple chapters there things aren't
reading and I'm like yeah you guys are
leaving you guys are leaving out a lot
of people who were shot dead in the
street at this point you know like and
where were you personally we're like the
young Napoleon was there killing people
in the street so you know this is this
is the ultimate problem we're up against
the primary sources can be incredibly
misleading deceptive and dishonest the
secondary sources can be incredibly
misleading and dishonest still to this
day what book could I possibly recommend
for you on the history of Buddhism right
seems like such a simple topic there
must be tons of books guess what in
English they're all garbage they're all
propaganda they're all lying to you I
mean like really really terrible yeah
you know they're they're way more
dishonest than histories of the Catholic
Church that are written by Catholics
Catholics now generally have the
attitude that they have to face up to
racism genocide slavery war like they
have to face up to the darkness of the
dark ages and have some kind of you know
critical response to it buddhism has not
evolved at this point okay let me tell
you're gonna get 100% dishonest
deceptive propaganda history of buddhism
you could say something similar about
islam you could see silver with the
french revolution so the assumption that
we're moving from primary sources
secondary source you're moving from
something dishonest to something honest
is false the the secondary sources are
often more dishonest and the secondary
sources in providing you with context
can only mislead you more than the
primary source so the the-- thus i close
the video with same thing i open the
video with the one piece of solid advice
i can give you on this kind of reading
and research is to exhibit your own
boredom so that you understand precisely
what are the questions you
to ask what are the questions you expect
this text to answer and if those
questions are neither being asked or
answered in the specific text whether it
be a book of philosophy politics or
history where are you going to look to
furnish yourself with that context
whether those are questions of slavery
questions of economics questions about
religion questions about war questions
about gender or something you want you
what you're really interesting is the
status of women in this period of
history and that's not mentioned at all
in the primary source the secondary
source where can you go to to add that
context so that you're reading it in
that or where how can you add in the
other side of the debate when the
primary source is tacitly and are
implicitly 1/2 of a debate and the other
half is left up to your to your
imagination being honest about what
makes this interesting to you if you're
if you're analytical about it is not
going to lead to a more biased reading
of history it's going to lead to you
being aware of your own bias and then
having a kind of incisive angle on the
bias of the various authors that are
collectively constructing that history
before your eyes